docs: announce cientos 3.4.0 (#405)
Tresjs/tres: docs/blog/announcing-cientos-3-4-0.md

---
sidebar: false
---

# Announcing cientos v3.4.0 🎉

Cientos is here again with a new and exiting release 🎉.

- **Cientos v3.4.0**

<iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/2XOL4zsm6V0nm" width="480" height="358" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe><p><a href="https://giphy.com/gifs/walking-2XOL4zsm6V0nm">via GIPHY</a></p>

> ## lensFlare

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## LensFlare
```

> A new and completely original abstraction has arrived to Cientos ✨ Behold His Majesty lensFlare.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new and completely original abstraction has arrived to Cientos ✨ Behold His Majesty `<LensFlare />`.
```

> A new and completely original abstraction, has arrived to Cientos ✨ Behold His Majesty lensFlare

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new and completely original abstraction, has arrived to Cientos ✨ Behold His Majesty lensFlare.
```

> Is a wrapper of the addon [lensFlare](https://threejs.org/docs/#examples/en/objects/Lensflare)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a wrapper of the threejs [lensFlare](https://threejs.org/docs/#examples/en/objects/Lensflare) addon.
```

> It's a wrapper of the threejs [lensFlare](https://threejs.org/docs/#examples/en/objects/Lensflare) addon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a wrapper of the Three.js [LensFlare](https://threejs.org/docs/#examples/en/objects/Lensflare) addon.
```

![](/blog/lensflare.gif)

> Could be intimidating at first but this component has a lot of flexibility, check it out[here](https://cientos.tresjs.org/guide/abstractions/lensflare.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Could be intimidating at first but this component has a lot of flexibility, check out all the different options [here](https://cientos.tresjs.org/guide/abstractions/lensflare.html)
```

We're going to say thanks [andretchen0](https://github.com/andretchen0) for this incredible contribution.

> ## SKY

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sky
```

> You can now create realistic outdoor scenes with the use of sky, which as the names implies it create sky gradients and more with just a few lines of code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Sky` component allows you to create realistic outdoor scenes with the use of sky, which as the name implies creates sky gradients and more with just a few lines of code.
```

![](/blog/sky.gif)

This is  fancy wrapper of the addon [Sky](https://threejs.org/examples/?q=sky#webgl_shaders_sky)

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```html
```

<script setup lang="ts">
import { Sky } from '@tresjs/cientos'
</script>

<template>
  <TresCanvas>
    <TresPerspectiveCamera :position="[0, 100, 2000]" />
    <Sky />
  </TresCanvas>
</template>
```
Could be more simple?

You can find the official docs [here](https://cientos.tresjs.org/guide/staging/sky.html)

Another one of [andretchen0](https://github.com/andretchen0) amazing contribution!

## SVG

![](/blog/svg.gif)

> A classical one, the svg loader component has arrived in cientos this release, a wrapper of the original [loader](https://threejs.org/docs/?q=svg#examples/en/loaders/SVGLoader) with basically one line of code (well two if you count the import 😅)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A classical one, the svg loader component has arrived in cientos this release, to bring the versatility of `svg` into a wrapper of the original [loader](https://threejs.org/docs/?q=svg#examples/en/loaders/SVGLoader) with basically one line of code (well two if you count the import 😅).
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```html
```

<template>
  <TresCanvas>
    <Suspense>
      <SVG src="/favicon.svg" /> // you can pass a path or a inline svg
    </Suspense>
  </TresCanvas>
</template>
```
You can find the official docs [here](https://cientos.tresjs.org/guide/loaders/svg.html)

And yes, again big thanks to [andretchen0](https://github.com/andretchen0) 3 in a row!

## Stats-gl

![](/blog/stats-gl.png)

> Another exiting one is the addition of Stats-gl which is like statsjs but with superpowers, original developed for [RenaudRohlinger](https://github.com/RenaudRohlinger/stats-gl) is a powerful performance monitoring tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another exciting one is the addition of Stats-gl which is like statsjs but with superpowers, originally developed by [RenaudRohlinger](https://github.com/RenaudRohlinger/stats-gl) is a powerful performance monitoring tool.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```html
```

> Another exiting update is the addition of Stats-gl, which is like statsjs but with superpowers. Developed for [RenaudRohlinger](https://github.com/RenaudRohlinger/stats-gl), it is a powerful performance monitoring tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another exciting one is the addition of Stats-gl which is like statsjs but with superpowers, originally developed by [RenaudRohlinger](https://github.com/RenaudRohlinger/stats-gl) is a powerful performance monitoring tool.
```

<script setup lang="ts">
import { TresCanvas } from '@tresjs/core'
import { StatsGl } from '@tresjs/cientos'
</script>

<template>
  <TresCanvas>
    <StatsGl /> // as simple as this
  </TresCanvas>
</template>
```

Big thanks to [notarun](https://github.com/notarun) for this amazing contribution.

Official doc [here](https://cientos.tresjs.org/guide/misc/stats-gl.html)

## Fix camera as a param problem in controls

[damiankoper](https://github.com/damiankoper) discover a bug when you tried to use the camera as a parameter

> Thanks to [damiankoper](https://github.com/damiankoper) for this useful contribution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to [damiankoper](https://github.com/damiankoper) for this useful contribution.
```

> ## new documentation full of examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## New documentation full of examples
```

> 

Reviewer: Add a screenshot on how the docs looks now with the examples

In addition to all this amazing new features, we have working internally to improve the UX, and now you can visit the [cientos](https://cientos.tresjs.org/) page and navigate through the components and see right away the inline examples.

> ## internal organization of code (will be ease to contribute)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Internal organization of code (will be ease to contribute)
```

Also we're constantly working in the DX, in refactors, cleaning and internal improvement, so now we have a clear path which also get transform on a easy and intuitive package, so now is easier to contribute to cientos pkg than ever 😁.

> Thanks for reading and happy 3D coding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks for reading and happy 3D coding 😊.
```

> Also we're constantly working on the DX: refactors, cleaning and internal improvement. So now we have a clear structure, now it is easier than ever to contribute to cientos pkg 😁.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, we're constantly working on the DX: refactors, cleaning, and internal improvement. So now we have a clear structure, now it is easier than ever to contribute to the cientos package 😁.
```

> Thanks for reading and happy 3D coding  😊

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks for reading and happy 3D coding  😊.
```
